Many local goddess cults (always associated with fertility and the harvest and childbirth) fused into the worship of the All Mother, Melitele, who still has many followers in the North today. Much like later organized religions, Melitele does have formal temples with frescoes and stained glass, but unlike them her teachings are about tolerance, practical knowledge, and being of service to people in need. Frequently her shrines are very simple, with offerings of fruit and flowers, and three statues: Melitele as the maid, the mother, and the crone. The Goddess experiences all the ages of women and under- stands the problems of each, but her concerns go well beyond women. There is no complex structure and no requests for donations.

Melitele’s worship is centered in Temeria at the main temple in Ellander. The head priestess is Nenneke. Anyone in need—for food, for peace, for strength to withstand the horrors of war—can come to her. Her temple is well known for offering education in reading, writing, math, ethics, history, and healing. Melitele, like any good mother, is extremely understanding, although Nenneke is not above nudging situations in her commu- nity. Healers who train at the temple go wherever they are needed, including the battlefield at Brenna. Melitele is a goddess of the harvest and of abundance as well. Farmers and other people who live off the land come to her temple. Her goodwill is very important to people whose livelihood depends on the seemingly unpredictable factors of weather, drought, insects, and warriors (who rarely consider that their chosen battlefield might be someone’s life-blood).