>[!aside]
># The Church of Kreve 
>The cult of Kreve is a church of the North. It is basically the worship of a not particularly well known sky or thunder god. The priests of Kreve tended to be moralistic and did much admonishing. Unfortunately for them, some of their priests were co-opted by kings. These priests’ messages centered on the Divine Right of kings and the efficacy of giving large contributions to the church. This did not endear them to their flocks. They then made the unfortunate move of going to Novigrad and proclaiming that the Eternal Fire was the result of Kreve visiting Novigrad. One hundred years ago, when the Cult of the Eternal Fire was a small and somewhat tolerant faith, that was fine. But as the Cult has grown and become more martial and more intolerant, it is winning away the followers of Kreve, who see its power and expansion as a sign of it being “more blessed.”
>–Brandon of Oxenfurt

The earliest religions in the primitive North worshiped guardian spirits, each often known only in a small local area. To the early settlers, the forests were forbidding, but the rivers were dependable lifelines and a source of water, so it makes perfect sense that the cult of Veyopatis should crop up on the upper Pontar. He was a fierce god associated with rivers, but colonists prayed to him to protect them in the forests: to clear away monsters, savage animals, and ghosts. Worshippers put posts in the ground with Veyopatis’s face on them to ward off dan- gers. The cult of Veyopatis lasted as long as he was needed. Today, when the forests and animals are known, the posts have lost their meaning and he only receives sacrifices now from a few priestesses and witches living deep in the forest.

Some people believe that the Cult of Veyopatis evolved into structured modern Druidism. The druids don’t send out missionaries. In fact, they have a closed society. They live in groups in the forest called circles. They have no particular deities, but worship nature itself and its order and harmony. They worship under the stars in sacred groves or stone circles. They write petitions or supplications to local authorities where humans upset the balance of nature, and because they are respected for their knowledge and healing, they are generally listened to. Most of the druids of the North are now at Caed Myrkvid, the Touissant circle protected by the Duchess Anna Henrietta herself. There is also a druid circle in Skellige. The leader of a circle is called “hierophant” if male, and “flaminika” if female. The hierophant of the Skellige circle is Ermion, sometimes called Mousesack. He is an unusual druid in that he, historically, has advised the leaders of both Skellige and Cin- tra. Some druid groups may use violence if humans invade their areas with destructive motives. When you go into a forest, be sure to know if there is a local circle and how they are disposed toward outsiders.

Soon humans moved beyond appeasing nature and developed specialized gods, and the darker and lighter sides of the human mind emerged. The early goddess of destruction Lilit is still worshipped in the far east under the name Niya. The sorcerer and prophet Eltibald claimed to have studied the myths of the Dauk, Wozgor, and werebbubb. Those myths claim that Lilit’s return would be heralded by a Black Sun and fifty women with gold crowns who would fill the valleys with blood.

The brighter side of divinity at- tempts to enlighten the minds and morals of everyday people. A good example of this is the Cult of Kreve. Previously worshipped throughout Redania, Kaedwen, and points north, it is now losing ground to the Cult of the Eternal Flame, which offers its follower the freedom to hate and to blame others for their own failings. At the opposite pole from Melitele, Kreve encourages his followers to create moral crusades, accept the Divine Right of kings, and make sizable donations. Many followers of Kreve are very devoted. You may have heard of Saint Gregory, who used half of his ample funds to buy food from Nazair to save Novigrad from starvation.

Let’s look at the four religions that are advancing at this time.