# 2. Gear
You can’t survive on the Continent, much  less earn a living, unless you equip yourself.

## On the Road
It’s more than likely that you spend most of your time on the road and only stop off in cities to resupply, meet up with contacts and friends, and maybe get a night on a nice bed with some warm company. This is because you’ll more than likely spend your time either running from the War or searching for enough work to stay alive. This means you carry enough to survive on the road. As a typical traveler you should consider buying:
- A satchel
- A bedroll
- A lantern
- Food for a week or so
- A dagger 
- A flint & steel 
- 20m of rope (just in case) 
- A weapon of some kind 

Plenty of other things could come in handy, but you want to travel light. This lets you move quicker and makes you less of a target.

## Wartime
At the moment the world is at war. Or at least, the part of the world you live in. This means a few things have changed. First off, get ready to pay out big for anything you want. Sadly, with the world awash in blood and resources highly prized by both sides of the conflict, a little inflation has occurred and prices on normally cheap goods have skyrocketed. Many people even turn to theft and crime just to get food for themselves or their family. Secondly, and to your advantage, with soldiers from all over coming to the front and dying for their countries or masters, gear from all over the world is showing up for sale. With the deaths of 15 or 20 Gemmerians in Aedirn, suddenly Gemmerian swords are on the market. A Nilfgaardian vessel takes a Skellige pirate vessel, and now you can get Skelliger krigsverds in Maecht.

## Elderfolk Items
Elderfolk have always made the best weapons and armor in the land. Dwarves make the best steel, elves forge the best weapons, and gnomes put them both to shame with their fine detail work and skill at finishing a blade or a suit of armor, optimizing the best qualities and minimizing the flaws. Unfortunately, with the crusade against non-hu- mans such gear has become very rare.

## Getting Coin
Time to figure out how much money you have at your disposal. Currency in the Witcher world is split up based on region, but most merchants recognize and accept the Redanian crown. Each profession can expect different pay. This coin, and the goods you buy with it, are in addition to the gear you picked when you chose your Profession.

>[!cards|2]
| Profession  | Coin            | Average |
| ----------- | --------------- | ------- |
| Bard        | `dice: 120*2d6` | 840     |
| Craftsman   | `dice: 120*2d6` | 840     |
| Criminal    | `dice: 120*2d6` | 700     |
| Doctor      | `dice: 150*2d6` | 1050    |
| Mage        | `dice: 200*2d6` | 1400    |
| Man at Arms | `dice: 150*2d6` | 1050    |
| Merchant    | `dice: 180*2d6` | 1260    |
| Priest      | `dice: 75*2d6`  | 525     |
| Witcher     | `dice: 50*2d6`  | 350     |
>
>|1 Redanian Crown is equal to|
>|:---:|
>|**1 Temerian Oren** Used in Temeria, most of the Northern Kingdoms below the Pontar River|
>|**1/3 Nilfgaardian Floren** Used in Nilfgaard and Nilfgaardian Provinces|
>|**3 Ducats** Used in Kaedwen|
>|**1/4 Bizant** Used in Kovir & Poviss|
>|**1/2 Lintar** Used in The Hengfors League|
## Selling Goods
The prices listed below represent the inflated wartime price of goods. This is the price you will be buying items for. If you want to sell goods on the market the base price you can get for them is half the listed price. This can be haggled up by using the Business skill against the merchant’s Resist Coercion (or a DC set by the GM)

| Success  | Percentage of Market |
| -------- | -------------------- |
| At DC    | 100%                 |
| 4 Above  | 125%                 |
| 6 Above  | 150%                 |
| 8 Above  | 175%                 |
| 10 Above | 200%                 |

