```ad-quote
“The Golden Court, the country town’s elegant inn, was crowded and noisy. The guests, locals and visitors, were mostly engaged in activities typical for their nation or profession. Serious merchants argued with dwarves over the price of goods and credit interest. Less serious merchants pinched the back- sides of the girls carrying beer, cabbage and beans. Local nitwits pretended to be well-informed. Harlots were trying to please those who had money while discouraging those who had none. Carters and fishermen drank as if there were no tomorrow. Some seamen were singing a song which celebrated the ocean waves, the courage of captains and the graces of mermaids, the latter graphically and in considerable detail.”
```
-- -Andzrei Sapkowski, Last Wish

You’ve seen quite a bit about the world around you through weapons, professions, and introductions to the game. However, there’s a lot more to learn. At the moment the world is split between the Empire of Nilfgaard, the Northern Kingdoms, and Skellige. While these are the basic sides as far as the Third Nilfgaardian War goes, there is a lot more differentiation to be made between the alliances within these factions. The Empire of Nilfgaard is a tremendous expanse covering many many countries and regions. Due to its rapid and brutal expansion much of the Empire is held under Imperial law but remains true to its original culture. This means that while the country of Nilfgaard functions one way, its further provinces and more autonomous duchies may be drastically different in customs and operation. You can’t assume that working in the capital of Nilfgaard will be the same as operating in Gheso.

Similarly, the Northern Kingdoms and Skellige are really only united by the fact that they are all fighting Nilfgaard. Further, with the loss of many of their rulers, most of the North has fallen into chaos.

## The Importance of Alliances 
Who you ally yourself with is as important as where you’re from in the world of The Witcher. Each alliance, including religions, comes with allies and enemies and it’s assumed that if you join an alliance you will be working towards its goals. As we’ve seen with the Lodge of Sorceresses, that can be problematic.