Travel is often skipped in games, with Players arriving at their destination in a hand-wave explanation from the GM. Now don’t get me wrong, I do this all the time. But during a home game for a single player of mine (a Witcher), I wanted to take a slower approach. Something about Old School Renaissance (OSR) games emphasized a lot: travel and hex crawling. When implementing this into my game, it was definitely rough around the edges. But as time went on, and I refined the rules and mechanics as we played, something special started to come out of the rough. Travel Systems can also be a great means for the Gamemaster to “buy time” in a story as they figure out the next major plot beat that’s going to happen next - or because real life might be impacting the hobby so it takes some stress and work off their shoulders. A well-set up and customizable “encounter generator” like the one that you’ll see at the end of this document can provide all sorts of interesting stories in a “low-on-prep” environment that still progresses the characters and stories. When used appropriately following the guidelines, I lay out in this document, even those who don’t want to micromanage travel might find benefit in having this type of system on hand.

If you have a party that loves the idea that the journey is as important as the destination, I implore you to try this system out. This document serves as both a reference guide for my Players and a homebrew supplement for yours. Enjoy - Dan

## Travels
Much like in our favorite RPGs (at least mine), Witcher 3, Elder Scrolls (Oblivion, Skyrim), Red Dead Redemption 2, and so on, traveling is a means of finding new adventure, meeting NPCs, experiencing random events, and discovering new locations. Much like those games and real medieval accounts, traveling is quite dangerous. Yet, it can be very rewarding with hidden treasures, side quests, and a wealth of Player bonding. Let’s be honest, The Hobbit and Lord of the Rings are one big hex crawl campaign. 

The Travel Rules themselves are a mashup of many RPG systems made to work in the Witcher. The biggest inspiration for streamlining this system and organizing time came from Forbidden Lands, so there will be systems and layout similar to that.