# 3. Magic
Magic is a profoundly dangerous art as well as a well-researched and documented science. Ever since the Conjunction of the Spheres, certain people have been born all over the globe who are capable of tapping into magic and bending it to their will to some degree. 

As any mage will tell you, the fundamental power that a mage wields is a force referred to as “Primal Chaos.” It is drawn from the four elemental planes that encircle the globe. Each plane’s form of chaos has its own personality. Earth magic is easily accessible but not a very efficient transmitter of energy. It requires a lot of work to summon earth magic, but the power it holds is immense. Air magic is fickle and difficult to control. Accessing it is easy, but grabbing hold of enough of it to cast a spell can be difficult, and a certain intuition is required. Fire magic is the most destructive and chaotic of the elements. It is easy to summon and provides power quickly. Unfortunately, young or inexperience mages often have a difficult time halting the flow of fire magic and overload their bodies with dramatic effects. Water magic is considered the easiest to learn and is often the introduction for young mages, since it is easy to draw and reasonably easy to control. 

>[!aside]
># Defending Against Magic
>Every spell, invocation, and sign has a Defense entry which tells you how you defend against the magic. 
>- Block: The magic can be blocked as per a normal attack. 
>- Dodge: The magic can be dodged with Dodge/Escape or Athletics. Sometimes the spell will specify which. 
>- Resist Magic: The magic must be countered by a Resist Magic check. 
>- STAT x 3: Sometimes magic will require the caster to beat a DC based on the tar- get’s stats. 
>- None: The magic cannot be defended against unless the Dispel spell or Heliotrope sign is used to defend against it.

## The Magical Population 
Most of the magical population is born with magical potential, but only enough to per- form perhaps a single magical feat such as oneiromancy and the like. These folk can learn to use their minimal talent over time but are never able to reach beyond it. 

A minuscule fraction of that population is born with the capability to become full-fledged mages. These people are sent to magical academies such as Aretuza or Ban Ard, where they are taught how to utilize their power before it becomes dangerous to them and their neighbors. 

There is still a third population: mages refer to those as “sources.” Sources are a special case, born with tremendous, unstable magical potential. Sources must learn at an academy or druid circle, or be tutored by a mage. If they fail to get the proper training, more often than not the power drives them mad. They become drooling, sputtering lunatics plagued by visions and bursting with uncontrolled magic.

## Elven Magic
```ad-quote
In my class on the Colonization of the North I am of- ten asked if there is different magic for elves and humans. Yes there is, but elvish magic is very rarely seen these days except in the enclaves of Dol Blathanna and Brokilon. The elves taught the Exiles who arrived 1000 years after the Con- junction of the Spheres how to use what was at that time a wild magic, but we believe that they did not teach them elvish magic. Sources, those who are born with the ability to manipulate magic, are more common among humans than elves. Many of the elvish mages were probably lost during the Aelirenn Rebellion and no young elves are being born to replace them. 
```
–Brandon of Oxenfurt

## The Dangers of Magic
While sources are the most dangerous of mages, all forms of magic carry a risk. The fundamentals of casting spells, rituals, and the like require a mage to not only draw energy from another realm, but to use their own body as a conduit for the spell. This can be catastrophic for untrained mages, and even veteran mages who are foolish—or desperate enough—to overexert themselves. A mage who has drawn too much magic through their body suffers excruciating pain (and often side effects) as the magic bleeds out of them. Earth magic rocks the earth around the mage and locks up their joints, temporarily immobilizing them. Air magic explodes out of the mage, throwing them from their feet. Fire magic ignites the mage into a pyre of colored flame, and water magic begins to freeze the mage, causing ice crystals to form on skin and clothing. Mixed-element magic blows out unpredictably, though one element always comes to the forefront.

>[!aside|left]
># Vigor
>Vigor is an intangible measurement of how much chaos you can channel through your body at any one time. Exceeding that amount has disastrous results.

## Training a Mage
If you’ve been born with enough magic to qualify as a “mage” you must train your skills, assuming you don’t want to wind up a gibbering wreck or a magical time bomb. Luckily, three institutions exist to tend to the young and magical. In the Northern Kingdoms, the Schools of Ban Ard and Aretuza stand as the primary educators of young mages. 

Young women gifted with the power are sent to Aretuza on the island of Thanedd. There they are sequestered away and taught the intricacies of magic and casting spells properly. Aretuza is tough, and many restrictions are placed on the girls who attend it. Sorceresses aren’t allowed to leave the school until they complete their training, and every girl who enters Aretuza is magically sterilized to keep her from giving birth to unstable magical children. Their isolation and rigorous training creates highly skilled and dangerously ambitious sorceresses. The side effect, of course, is that most sorceresses are self-serving and only interested in their own gain. Young men in the North are sent to the school of Ban Ard, in Kaedwen, where they train in a less rigorous environment. Students of Ban Ard are allowed to wander the streets of the city, drink, whore, and partake in most other pursuits of young men in Kaedwen. However, this lack of discipline and focus tends to result in sorcerers who are far less effective than the sorceresses of Aretuza. For many years the two schools have held magical competitions, and unsurprisingly the sorceresses of Aretuza always won. In Nilfgaard, however, the story is very different. In the vast expanse that is now Nilfgaard there used to be a few diferent magical academies across the various countries. However, with Nilfgaard’s infmous mistrust of mages, all of these schools were torn down and consolidated into the School of Gweision Haul, on the Alba near the capital. Gweision Haul is the largest maical academy on the continent, housing over 10,000 students at a time from all over Nilfgaard, both human and elven. Terms at Gweision Haul are mandatory and anyone found to have magic is sent there as soon as they are discovered. Living conditions are utilitarian and sparse, often more like a prion than a school, and the halls are patrolled by Nilfgaardian mage hunters. Nilfgaardian mages are not only taught how to control their powers, they are also taught humility. They’re constantly reminded that they serve the Emperor, and their magic is a tool for the Empire to use as it sees fit.

>[!aside|right]
># Shamless Nordlings
>Often times when Nilfgaardian mages meet Northern mages, they are amazed and shocked by the shameless flaunting and self-serving nature of their Northern counterparts.

```ad-quote
# Brandon and the Fire Mage
I have mentioned before that I do not often keep the company of mages, especially mages who specialize in manipulating fire. I believe that the average mage has a poor appraisal of his or her control over the ele- ments, which are powers great enough to form the world. I was once threatened by a fire mage named Criznon of Rivia when I suggested the elven magic tome he had recovered was a fraud. As I continued to talk I could sense him pulling flames into himself, but I am not one to back down on a matter of scholarship. I continued to question his training, abilities, and parentage as people moved away from me. Eventually while waiting for me to take a breath so that he might shout some appropriate “Ah ha!” he exploded into a screaming pillar of fire. When you reach for the easiest form of power it’s easy to lose sight of your actual abilities.
```
–Brandon of Oxenfurt

>[!aside]
># Mixed Element
>Some of the spells listed here are impossible without the invocation of at least two elements. These spells are considered mixed element, meaning that they draw power from multiple elements.
># Magic Ranges
>You’ll find that the ranges of most spells are very short com- pared to the greater reach of crossbows and other ranged weapons. This is because containing the power required to cast a spell at greater ranges is very difficult. Mages in combat tend to be similar to grenadiers: great power but shorter range.
```ad-quote
Once, while I was traveling with my dear mage friend, I saw ‘er overdraw magic. Hoo boy... We were facin’ off against a group of ghouls and they were bearin’ down on us. My friend throws up her hands and says some fancy words, then all hell breaks loose. This blue glow ripples down her staff and through her arms. I hear this hissing noise all around and then ice starts growin’ all over her arms, wor- kin’ its way up her arms like a serpent. Had to crack the ice off of her with the back of my axe just to get her movin’ right again. Said it was like pourin’ acid through her veins and I don’t doubt her one bit.
```
–Rodolf Kazmer

[[Mage|Mages]] primarily use a style of magic called spells. Spells are a complex bind- ing of magic which takes energy from an elemental source and channel it into a magical effect which can range from tremendously complex, such as storms of fire and tsunamis, to incredibly simple, such as lighting candles and creating mist.


Spells require great skill and concentration to perform, and thus only a small percentage of magic users can cast them. Magic users can rarely attain this level of skill and concentration with- out training at one of the magic schools around the world. A skilled mage can cast spells very quickly and often.

Though casting high-level spells is risky, smaller spells become a daily part of a mage’s life, from dressing in the morning to cooking meals.
## Maintaining Spells
Spells which are active require maintaining: every round the mage must spend an amount of STA equal to the value next to active. The mage must focus on maintaining this spell and cannot cast other spells while they are maintaining an active spell.

## Telepathic Spying
You can use Telepathy to silently listen to a target’s thoughts. This works the same as regular telepathy.If the target has a witcher medallion this will cause it to vibrate, and if the target is a mage and has Magic Training, they get a chance each round to detect the telepathic spying by rolling Magic Training against your initial Telepathy roll.

## Area of Effect
When using area of effect spells such as Static Storm you should always keep in mind that these spells affect other player characters and friendly NPCs as well as enemies. It would be a shame to cast Static Storm in a desperate situation and accidentally wound your whole party.

## Accidental Spells
```ad-quote
Never actually seen someone cast Merigold’s Hailstorm. Heh, from what I heard Miss Meri- gold wasn’t even plannin’ to cast it when she first did. Guess that’s the way of magic sometimes. Ya get into a situation where ya need some fire-power but ya ain’t got the time to think it out. Sometimes ya just reach for the magic and can’t think about what it’s gonna do. Heh, gotta admit though, from what I’ve heard it sounds like she came up with one hell of a spell.
```
–Rodolf Kazmer