Within the memory of the Cintrans, the country was bright and busy with trade on the ocean and on the Yaruga. In 1263 Nilfgaard marched on Cintra. Everyone had hoped that Emhyr var Emreis would be a peaceful neighbor, but it was not to be. The king, Eist Tuirseach, was killed in battle. Since he was also a king of Skellige, the Skelligers have been implacable foes of Nilfgaard since. When the Nilfgaardian army encircled the Cintran castle, their queen, the almost mythical Calanthe of Cintra, threw herself off the battlements. Calanthe, a strong and canny woman, had reigned through three generations. With her death, the Cintran people lost heart. This became known as the Slaughter of Cintra. The only hope for the Cintrans is Calanthe’s granddaughter Cirilla. She disappeared during the battle, but next appeared marrying the Emperor. There is a puppet king who takes orders directly from the Emperor, who rules Cintra from afar in the name of the Empress. Cintran discontent sometimes encourages the smuggling of goods to other afflicted countries in the North.

## The Duchy of Attre
The duchy of Attre lies just south of the Cintran capital. Despite being coastal most of its territory is dry and hot. Even after the Nilfgaardian takeover Attre still remains as a duchy of Cintra. The last Cintran ruler, Duke Windhalm, lead an un- successful revolt against Nilfgaard and was captured only to be made an example of by dying very painfully and publicly. After this most of the Attre nobles sided with Nilfgaard.

–Brandon of Oxenfurt