>[!aside]
># The Great Sun
>There is only one faith in Nilfgaard, that of The Great Sun. It is a very old faith and many ancient sites tell us about the early history. The Emperor is the head of the Church, leading great rituals at the solstices and equinoxes. Few Nilfgaardians still believe that he is the Sun in human form, but the rituals, the priests, and the services are part of the traditions that shape Nilfgaard.
>–Brandon of Oxenfurt

The Landing of the Exiles brought to our lands the humans who later became the Nordlings. At that time, the Nilfgaardians were already established in their country to the south. The capital (also called Nilfgaard) is lavish, larger than Vizima, and lies along the river Alba. It is built entirely of marble and gold and is nicknamed the City of Golden Towers. Only those who are born within this country (or better yet, this city) are true Nilfgaardians. Nilfgaardians have their own language derived from Elder Speech and re- quire the populace of the provinces to learn it.

The politics of Nilfgaard are treacherous, dom- inated by a handful of noble houses constantly vying for power. The Emperor is all-powerful, supported by his allied houses. There is a senate, but it rarely has much effect on the Empire. The family of the current Emperor, Emhyr var Emreis, has ruled for most of Nilfgaardian recent history. Emhyr’s grandfather, Emperor Torres var Emreis, founded the kingdom of Nilfgaard on the banks of the Alba and made it a force to be reckoned with, repulsing attacks from Gemmeria, its feral neighbor. Torres’ son Fergus var Emreis was the first Emperor to contact the North and shape the Empire we know now. Emperor Fergus was overthrown by the Usurpator in 1233, however. The Usurpator continued the expansion of Nilfgaard under his own banner until Fergus’ son Emhyr returned from exile and overthrew him in 1257.  

The young men (and some young women) of the city compete seriously for places at the Academy of Nilfgaard. Successful students will form many connections that will be valuable later in life. After two of their four years, the Academy students may challenge to transfer to the Nilfgaardian Military Academy where they will be trained rigorously for the army. They learn strategy and tactics as well as weapons mastery, horsemanship, sailing, survival off the land, and methods of interrogation. Corporal punishment is common, as it is felt that young officers should know something about the punishment they dispense. The best of the best will be chosen for the Impera Brigade, the Emperor’s personal guard.
>[!aside|left]
># The Secret Guard 
>The Emperor’s Secret Guard are not very visible, but they are loyal and effective. Anyone caught sowing dissent within the Empire can expect a very unpleasant visit.
>–Brandon of Oxenfurt

Not all of Nilfgaardian culture is military. The Imperial Library at the Academy is most renowned, on a par with Oxenfurt and Lan Exeter. The Academy summons outstanding writers, musicians, scholars, philosophers, and scientists. It supports their work and keeps them where they can be watched. Those magical few among the rank and file are sent to the magic academy of Gweision Haul, located just outside the capital of Nilfgaard. Gweision Haul is a tremendous and foreboding complex large enough to house several hundred students but sparse in its furnishings. Students are under guard at all times by Mage Hunters and wardens. They learn not only control of their power, but obedience to the Emperor and the Empire. Punishments are harsh, but a student can gather a great deal of knowledge and stature as long as they remember their place and don’t cause trouble.