Even amidst the desolation of Temeria and Sodden, there is always someone making a profit. Where there is war, first are the vultures, then the wolves and eagles, and always the Havekar. These scavengers sprang up in Sod- den to take advantage of the Scoia’tael commandos’ need for supplies. There are few safe havens for the Scoia’tael, especially now that many of the elves have withdrawn to Dol Blathanna where Scoia’tael cannot go, and assimilated elves elsewhere risk death if they are even seen with Scoia’tael. Coins, gems, jewelry, fine furs, well- bred horses stolen or looted from the dh’oine—only the most valuable and portable of wealth is accepted by the Havekar. They provide services covertly to anyone who can pay, but flash too much wealth around them and it may be the last thing you do. You will also want to be careful if you have a wagon. Since the Havekar stay mo- bile to keep from being caught by the regular army, wag- ons are necessary for their way of life. They will do anything for money, up to and including murdering their own kind. Their healers may roam the battlefield looking for injured to heal at the price of all their goods. Mer- chants scour the field for weapons, and bodies wearing armor they can resell. Desperate people whose villages have been destroyed may barter arrowheads and bloody clothing for food, but if they ever appear to make a prof- it they will be shut down quickly—and permanently. Havekar are most easily found at deserted crossroads or the occasional brick building left standing after the war passes by. Some people believe that the Havekar are sim- ply one aspect of organized crime elsewhere, but there are no tales of Havekar being protected or avenged by anyone.