I suppose the Scoia’tael were inevitable. For hundreds of years after the humans landed, the elves fell back. Their long lifespans made the humans seem a mere annoyance. Starting about 200 years ago the elves continued to pull back but started to destroy their beautiful mar- ble cities and palaces behind them as they left. So many young elves died during the Aelirenn Uprising that quite a few elves gave up on the future. They had two choices: attempt to assimilate into human communities as second-class citizens or withdraw into the harsh wastes of the Blue Mountains. Their pride would not accept the first, and the second seemed a death sentence. Out of anger and frustration arose the Scoia’tael, small comman- dos of guerilla fighters; mostly elves, and some dwarves and halflings. Many wear squirrels’ tails, leading to the name given them by outsiders, Scoia’tael or Squirrels. They live off the land, or trade looted goods with the Havekar. Their skills when fighting in forests are unparalleled. The Scoia’tael appeared just after the First Nilfgaardian War. They killed humans and terrorized small communities, inflaming human fear and hatred, even of assimilated non-humans. After banishment from the ancestral homeland of the elves, Dol Blathanna, there is nothing left for Scoia’tael to do except to kill dh’oine. In a deal between the Nilfgaardian emperor and Francesca Findabair, the elvish queen, the price of Dol Blathanna, the elvish homeland, was that the queen not recognize or support the Scoia’tael or call them back to the homeland, so that were doomed to fight on. Despair, hopelessness, and anger drive them.