Few Northerners know about the Mage Hunters whose job is to find unregistered mages within the Nilfgaardian Empire and take them to the capital. They do not operate in war zones. In the Second Nilfgaardian War, sorcerers of the North were a thorn in the side of the Emperor. He made neutralizing them a priority, winning some over, and badly damaging the reputation of others. We know that Nilfgaardian mages are kept under close control, but Nilfgaard occupies many times its own original territory. What about the provincial mages? As their countries were incorporated, some mages voluntarily reported to the Nilfgaardian magic academy, Gweision Haul, for registration. Others, particularly in Nazair and Gemmera, did not. During the reign of the Usurpator, the Nilfgaardian Mage Hunters were created. The original organizer of the Mage Hunters was Isaiah Coehoorn, a distant relative of the famous Nilfgaardian general. The Usurpator called together the most successful mine owners in the Empire and offered an exclusive contract to the one who could discover the largest seam of dimeritium. The metal, which damps magic power, is primarily found in Kovir and Poviss, and is much rarer in the South. Despite the Usurpator’s offer, only one vein of dimeritium was found south of the Yaruga, in Gemmera.

Mage Hunters travel in pairs and carry dimeritium handcuffs and collars. They recruit hard and dangerous men who demonstrate paranoia concerning magic. Very few questions are asked about Mage Hunter methods, except as it concerns civilians. In order to ensure cooperation with Mage Hunters and the Empire, no civilians are to be harmed unless reinforcing the Empire’s message.