Even in the North, some know about the blue rose that only grows in Nazair. The roses have long been the symbol of Nazairian patriotism, and those who regularly wear the rose are well known to Nilfgaardian Intelligence, though so far all Intelligence has found is fiery rhetoric. Every once in a while word also drifts north of the Crescent Moon, a provincial resistance group. It may have started in Nazair, but the suggestion is that a thin network exists in many of the provinces, especially along the coast of the Great Sea. It goes without saying that anyone tied to such a group would be arrested for treason and executed. The fact that we in the North hear about the Crescent Moon being used as a password probably means that the name has been compromised and re- placed. We have not heard about any rebellions attributed to this organization, but they are probably gathering strength throughout the Empire, especially in recently conquered areas like Angren, Sodden, and Cintra. They know that surely Nilfgaard would easily put down one provincial rebellion, but sporadic acts of sabotage could gain them more ground with less risk. We assume that some provincial nobles must be involved to supply money and safe havens. I have never heard that Imperial Intelligence has been infiltrated, but of course it serves the Empire best to keep any word of the resistance absolutely quiet to maintain a façade of uniform harmony through- out the provinces. It remains to be seen if King Radovid can make use of the resistance.