>[!aside]
># Brouver Hoog
>Haven’t been back to Mahakam in a while. Heh, kin- da busy in the lowlands what with the war and keepin’ the Temerians stocked. Once tried to get aid for Temeria durin’ the Second War. Oh boy...didn’t go as planned, lemme tell ya. Ya see, elder Brouver Hoog of clan Hoog calls most of the shots in Mahakam. Fine dwarf in his time but he’s an old bastard now. Sure, got the best in mind for Mahakam but he don’t give a rat’s ass for the rest of the world. He’ll do trade with the other countries but if ya ain’t a Mahakaman dwarf ya best not expect any help from him. Let’s just say I didn’t get the help I was lookin’ for. Not from him, that is. Lucky enough, plenty of young dwarves took a stand and volunteered to fight for the Northern Kingdoms.
>–Rodolf Kazmer

The gnomes were the first to come to the North, followed by the dwarves, possibly as much as 500 years before the elves came. The humans were even later, but today they have pushed the dwarves back to their mountain strongholds, of which Mahakam in the Mahakaman Mountains is the largest. Humans virtually never visit the Mahakams except for occasional trade. All races are aware that the iron the dwarves mine in their mountains, and particularly Mount Carbon, is exceptional. Weapons made from it are light, sharp, and strong. But the dwarves do not work alone. The gnomes live deep in the mines and do not come out, which is why we see so few, but their craftsmanship is impeccable.

They are the technologists of Mount Carbon. Long ago, perhaps before even the dwarves arrived, they forged the legendary gwyhyr or gnomish sword. We don’t know how that de- sign was lost but today the dwarves smelt their already excellent iron with traces of other substances. The gnomes then sharpen and finish the blades, which can be a meter long and weigh less than a kilogram, to a razor-like edge. Those who know weapons swear by blades made in Mahakam using secret gnomish technology.

The dwarves are a proud and stubborn people who know their history and stand by their clan. While there are a number of clans, the elders strongly influence them all, especially Elder Brouver Hoog of the Hoog clan in Mount Carbon. Probably because they have retained their own land, the majority of dwarves remain neutral and adopt a live-and-let- live attitude toward humans. Dwarves are deadly and very loyal when it comes to combat. The little-known Mahakam Volunteer Army, an all-dwarf unit, served as infantry for the North and fought exceptionally bravely at major battles like Brenna and Maribor.

Outside of Mahakam, dwarves still run into race hatred in the North. Some of the younger generations braid their beards (to be told from the dwarves loyal to the North) and battle alongside the Scoia’tael in the Nilfgaardian army because Nilfgaard harbors much less hate for non-humans. In the wars, Nilfgaard passed by Mahakam, as they did with the dryad stronghold of Brokilon. When dwarves leave Mahakam (in all-male groups) they can generally integrate into human cities and start their own businesses. They have brought us ‘barrel,’ a complicated card game that, so far, no other race has taken the time to under- stand. The detailed and beautiful barrel cards are made in Mahakam and have no equal. This disproves the human theory that advanced dwarf technology applies only to weapons. All of the major banks in the North are owned by dwarven families like the Giancardis and Cianfanellis. The branches of these banks are widespread: the Cianfanelli bank has branch- es in Zerrikania and Nilfgaard.

There is much speculation about female dwarves. They have less luxurious beards and slighter builds. You may have seen female dwarves and not known it. Whether dwarven ladies dress in a more feminine fashion in the safety of Mahakam is unknown. But wherever you might find them, watch your step. Dwarves are very protective of their women.