>[!aside]
># The War Of The Races
>The war of the races, which cannot be ignored in our world, goes all the way back to the Landing of Exiles. I have never heard of equally poor race relations before that point. No major fracas between dwarves and gnomes, no vicious battle between elves and werebbubbs. No, this appears to be a specifically human condition. By the time the Exiles arrived, the dwarves and gnomes had dug in under the mountains. The only serious contender for us was the elves, and by the time they realized they were in a fight for their lives it was too late. They are a proud race, and that is understandable in regards to their art, architecture, literature, and general aesthetic values, but as far as survival is concerned they are pitiful. Human culture has not risen to their level, but we have the tenacity and ingenuity of cornered sewer rats. These are the things that the Scoia’tael is learning from us now but they cannot take this knowledge back to their people in the last retreat that is Dol Blathanna. As times become harder and national boundaries clash together, we use the non-human population as scapegoats for much of our human stupidity and arrogance.
>–Brandon of Oxenfurt

The growing antipathy between humans and non-humans is a source of point- less violence every day in the North. Human and elf conflict goes back to the legend of Lara Doren and Cregnan of Lod, and the destruction of the elvish palace at Loc Muinne by Redania just a few years after the elves there had agreed to educate human children in the mag- ical arts. Loc Muinne started a human/ elvish war which culminated in the battle at Shaerrewedd. This is not to say that humans have been the only offenders. It was a Scoia’tael massacre at Fort Leyda in Kaedwen that prompted the pogrom in the capital of Ard Carraigh that killed many assimilated elves and dwarves.

At the time of the First and Sec- ond Nilfgaardian Wars, King Demavend of Aedirn and King Henselt of Kaedwen, were rabidly anti-non-human. Such racism looms over the assimilated non-humans in the human cities at all times. They have no idea when a crowd of angry, intolerant humans will come to their door or burn their business. It is only a matter of time before humans manufacture an excuse to destroy the dwarvish banking families that under- write business in the North, solely out of greed and self-righteousness.

The people of Nilfgaard, including their Emperor, seem not to hold these same feelings. It is difficult to know what life is like for non-humans in Nilfgaard as very little information about it comes to the North. We do not know of any non-human strongholds in the South with the exception of a gnomish enclave in the Tir Tochair, but we do know that there are assimilated elves and dwarves living in Nilfgaardian cit- ies, probably under the same terms as humans of those provinces.

We know that the Emperor insisted in talks that Dol Blathanna be left to the elves as a homeland at the expense of the Scoia’tael who could not be received in Dol Blathanna until after the war. It would be naïve to think that this is anything other than a ploy by the Emperor to encourage the Scoia’tael to continue as a thorn in the side of the North. And yet, in the end, the elves do wind up with a recognized homeland, which is far more than they would ever receive from any force in the North. We have to assume that the Scoia’tael’s aid of the Nilfgaardian cause at Thanned, and the participation of the elven Vrihedd Brigade led by Isengrim Faoiltiarna with Nilfgaardian units at the Battle of Bren- na, are more a case of a temporary alliance based on a shared enemy. The fact that Nilfgaard handed over Isengrim Faoiltiarna and the officers of the Vrihedd Brigade only emphasizes that Nil- fgaard’s attitude towards the elves of the North are based, not on compassion, but expediency.

Humans hate dwarves less virulently, probably because they produce things that humans want and often live under mountains on lands humans do not want. Unfortunately this does not exempt the dwarves from human harassment and violence. One of the few known dwarven retreats in human lands, the city of Vergen, was recently attacked by Kaedwen, and the outcome is as yet unknown.

Can anything ever stop the animosity? If the elves retreat to Dol Blathanna, letting their rage die with the Scoia’tael, if the dwarves retreated to their underground world where they are not second class citizens, until the humans no longer vent their wartime fear and loss as hatred, could the races start over again? I’d like to think so.