# 5. Combat
Combat in the Witcher is deadly, bloody, and punishing. When blades start swing- ing and arrows start flying it’s best for you to keep an eye out and plan your moves carefully. You can go running into battle, hacking and slashing hither and thither but that likely won’t help you too much in a real solid fight against anything tougher than a mugger in the local tavern. Always keep in mind that damage can be punishing and death is never too far away. A tactical warrior will always make it farther than a savage madman.

## Don't Fight Groups
Even the most skilled warrior in the world is in trouble if they have to fight more than one opponent at a time. While you engage one person, more enemies attack you from behind, dog-pile you to the ground, or otherwise ruin your day. The fact of the matter is, you need focus to fight and it’s hard to focus on more than one person at once. There are ways to help in that situation: put all your opponents in front of you, wield a shield, keep your opponents at a distance. All of these approaches help but none of them eliminate the core problem. Keep this in mind when you face bandits and lesser monsters like nekkers. One of these enemies is easy to kill. But how will you fare against four—when, every time you swing at one, three more attack you from behind?

## Use Your Advantages
You should also always exploit every advantage and vary up your fighting where possible. Are you in a swamp with a boggy pond nearby? Throw your enemy into it and attack while they try to swim out. Can you back your opponent up against a wall or corner them so they can’t escape? Do it. Fast Strikes not landing enough damage to get through armor? Try a Strong Strike, or pin them so a buddy can stab in between the plates of their armor. Keep your opponents on their toes.

## Critical Wounds
There are wounds and then there are critical wounds. Both will kill you but a critical wound is a hundred times worse. Regular wounds represent cuts, bruises, scratches and such—smaller problems that can all add up to your death. Obviously the more damage you take from the wound the more impressive it is.

Critical wounds, on the other hand, represent structural damage to your body— wounds that not only drag you closer to death’s door but also break down your body’s ability to fight and function. These can be literal structural damage, such as broken or cracked bones, but they can also be less obvious things like brain damage and internal organs rupturing. All of these wounds are grievous and many of them cause major hemorrhaging or some other form of on- going damage as well as negatives to stats or abilities.

While you can keep fighting for quite a while with a few minor wounds, a critical wound puts a finite timer on your life. Until healed you are hampered in com- bat and getting closer and closer to death. These types of wounds are too complicated to just put a bandage on or suture yourself up. You can stop the bleeding or close the wound, but you’re going to need full-on invasive surgery and for that you’re going to need a doctor. If you can stagger to a doctor, you’ll make it but it’ll be a while before you heal. Luckily these critical wounds are based on how skilled you are compared to your opponent, and on how lucky you both are.

>[!infobox|right]
># Fighting Monsters Without Silver
>Most people who encounter monsters are forced to fight them without a silver weapon to help them. They are also usually forced to fight said monsters with no mag- ical or alchemical aid. Common folk fighting monsters tend to poison them with bait or to get a whole bunch of people together with spears and sharpened branches and pin the monster down so the bravest and strongest young lad can behead it with an axe. This works on smaller monsters but proves difficult on things like griffins and grave hags.

## Fighting Monsters
Keep in mind when you’re going up against monsters that fighting a monster is very different from fighting a man. Monster have special abilities and defenses that can make fighting them hellish. To start with, monsters are resistant to conventional weapons, taking much less damage from a non-silver weapon than a regular person would. If you run into a battle, say with a griffin, and are unaware of its damage resistance and stunning shriek, you will probably have some very fatal issues. Of course on the other hand, if you enter a battle with a fiend aware loud noises can stun them, you might come away with victory despite the amazingly un- fair odds. The key to fighting monsters is knowledge. If utilized properly, solid knowledge can turn a monster from unbeatable to survivable.

## Fighting with Magic
Mages are the artillery of the world of The Witcher. They wield power greater than any other person on the planet, but they have limits and often require people around them to help them operate best, or to defend them from attack. The worst situation for a mage is to be in melee range of an opponent or, God forbid, multiple opponents. Keep this in mind whether you are a mage who will be in combat often or you’re facing off against mages.

Many mages don’t wear heavy armor because it interferes with spell cast- ing, and thus many weapons can pierce a mage at close range. This combined with a lack of weapon training leads most mages to stay at range by use of teleportation, or have allies act as a barrier between them and the enemy. However, if a mage stays at range and manages Stamina well they can bring tremendous effects to the battlefield. Just remember, staves and amulets are your friends, and spells can be fickle.
