>[!aside]
># The Brotherhood
>A few handfuls of witchers survived the attacks on their keeps and the subsequent hatred of witchers, but most of them have fled into the mountains and across the sea to escape persecution or find work. Most of the keeps of the witchers have been left in disrepair or been mostly buried by time or the elements. That being said, it’s not impossible to find other witchers, just incredibly rare. Much like the Witcher Schools, some long-time members may have come back to re-occupy their once-lost keeps now that witchers are necessary again.

1500 years ago the world changed. The Conjunction of the Spheres opened doors between worlds, and magic poured in. With the magic came monsters of a thousand different types never seen before—the so-called ‘relicts’ of the Con- junction. When people came to these lands, they built walls and ramparts and burned forests and hedges around towns so the monsters could be seen coming. People traveled only during the day, and in large groups.

People began to harness magic, calling them- selves sorcerers or mages. Two of the most powerful, the legendary Alzur and his mentor Cosimo Malaspina, created an artificial race: the witchers, bred and trained to hunt and

destroy monsters. The sorceress Carla Demetia Crest collected the full process into a single book, “The Trial of Grasses and Other Secret Witcher Practices, Seen by my Own Eyes,” only available to mages. The process was extremely painful and only a handful of test subjects survived. Contrary to rumor, these sorcerers did not steal children to create witchers. Between wars, plagues, and the predation of monsters, ramshackle orphanages and stray children were everywhere.

They subjected these children to alchemical potions that created genetic mutations, a specialized diet, and rigorous mental and physical training. The mutation process, beginning with the Trial of the Grasses, lasted for days. There are no records of successful trials on girls or non-humans. Those that survived the non-stop fevers, vomiting, and hemorrhaging emerged as different creatures.

The most obvious sign of the transformation are the cat’s eyes that give witchers night vision comparable to regular day vision. It also sets them apart. They are made sterile: all witchers are made, not born. Their more efficient immune systems give them tremendous resistance to disease and a prolonged lifespan. They become stronger, faster, and more rugged than humans in every way. They have limited magical ability (enough to cast short-effect spells called “signs”) and are preternaturally aware of their environment. We’ve taken their humanity and given them the tools to fight the ‘relicts’ of the Conjunction so that we don’t have to. In those dark days all men lauded witchers as mankind’s defenders, but as monsters became rare, people forgot the witcher’s purpose. Today witchers travel constantly to find enough monsters to make their trade profitable. Witcher traditions bar them from fighting humans for pay. Prices for monster slaying have also dropped—people are now more afraid of war than nekkers or common vampires. When people now see a witcher they see only a monstrous, powerful, and dangerous being of dubious humanity. But the monsters were not completely killed off. In these days of few witchers, some of them are making a return, though not in large enough numbers to panic the populace. These days peasants have little to lose or to pay, so they are more likely to gang up on a monster themselves. At their height, when monsters and the monstrous results of magical experimentation were common, there were five witcher Schools: Wolf, Cat, Griffin, Viper, and Bear, each distinguished by their animal head medallion.

>[!aside]
># The Manticore
>Now I’ve heard tell about a sixth school of witchers called the Manticore. Only heard about it from one drunk traveler in a tavern though, so who knows. Said somethin’ about the manticore bein’ past the Korath or somethin’ like that. Does make a person curious though. What’d witchers be like in a land with saber-wieldin’ warrior women and gold dragons and whatnot?
>–Rodolf Kazmer