# Summary of Last Session 
The players attended the wedding feast in the courtyard of the Kozonn Manor. After enjoying some food and drink, they began to notice the absence of the wedding party. Suspicious, Brandyn attempted to question guests but they were all horrified by his appearance and wouldn't speak with him, or anyone who associated with him.

Eventually, Ket was able to acquire the uniform of a servant and led the party into the manor through one of the servant's entrances. They are determined to find out what is going on inside the manor that's causing a delay.

# Rest of the Story
1. Lord Kozonn and Lord Strotarg are locked in last-minute debates about the marriage "transaction".
	1. Lord Kozonn wants trade routes established between his land and Strotarg's
	2. Strotarg wants to build a Nilfgaardian garrison on Lord Kozonn's land, ostensibly used to house the guards he'll send to accompany the caravans
Lord Kozonn doesn't trust Strotarg's motives, especially as his own soldiers are deserters who he doesn't trust while Strotarg's guards will presumably be actual Nilfgaardian soldiers 

**Egrin, afraid that Strotarg may refuse the marriage in the last moment, wants the party to kill Lord Strotarg after the wedding, thereby inheriting his lands and strengthening the Kozonn family. The only condition is that no one knows, especially Denia.**

**If Lord Strotarg finds out about the plot somehow, offers the players the lands of Lord Kozonn - IF they kill the Lord and his son. However, his daughter Denia must think that it was the nightwraith who exacted her revenge**

- Lord Strotarg has heard the stories of the players and the nightwraith. He also knows that Lord Kozonn is the one who ordered the murder of Iva, creating the nightwraith. **Drek** is his source.


# Obstacles
1. The party must sneak far enough into the manor without being seen by the Temerian or Nilfgaardian soldiers.
2. They can't be spotted by any house servants who would know they're under cover