>[!aside]
># Ban Ard
>Ban Ard is set in the foothills of the Blue Mountains south- east of Ard Carraigh. The city’s main industry is mining, but it is best known as being the home of the Ban Ard Acade- my, the school for training boys inmagecraft. Atonetimethere was a healthy rivalry between the boys’ school and the girls’ school. Generally the girls won due to the greater discipline and confinement of Aretuza. The boys of Ban Ard are not confined, much to the disap- pointment of the townspeople.
>–Brandon of Oxenfurt 

Kaedwen is the second largest country by area in the known world after Nilfgaard. But unlike Nilfgaard, most of Kaed- wen is rocky, mountainous, or deeply forested. The north of the country is sparsely settled by independent-spirited communities. They scratch a difficult living from the land and trade furs and lumber. They tend to be conservative and isolationist. The northern border of Kaedwen is between the northernmost peaks of the Kestrel and Blue Mountains. The harsh conditions beyond this point have so far daunted even the hardy settlers of Kaedwen. The eastern border is the Blue Mountains. The southern boundary is the Pontar River. To the west are the Kestrel Mountains. Up to now this natural boundary has kept peace between Kaedwen and Redania, but Kaedwen recently called King Radovid of Redania for aid against Nilfgaard. The “aid” Radovid sent was an army of occupation, not military support. This started a conflict called the Winter War, as Redanian troops moved over the Kestrels and into Kaedwen to stay. With King Henselt missing or dead, there has been little organized defense.

Kaedwen is the youngest of the Northern countries. The humans pushed the elves back into the Blue Mountains and settled their country about 200 years ago, though that was not the end of violence between Kaedweni and elves. The Scoia’tael have made many cruel raids into the forests, and Kaedwen has replied by killing thousands of elves and dwarves already assimilated into Kaedweni cities. There are also wars with Aedirn over the Pontar Valley, or Lormark. This area is hotly disputed territory even as Nilfgaard advances toward it.

Henselt has had some very powerful advisers. One such was Sabrina Glevissig, a powerful native Kaedweni sorceress, beautiful and usually dressed in provocative clothing. She became the power behind the throne, leaving Henselt time for more pleasurable pur- suits. Unfortunately during the battle with Aedirn she chose to follow the instructions of the Lodge of Sorceresses rather than Kaedwen’s best interests, causing vast Kaedweni casualties. Henselt had her burned at the stake. This was not the end, though: Sabrina put her death curse on the battlefield so that wraiths would fight the battle out over and over again until the curse was finally lifted just last year.

>[!aside]
># Ban Glean
>Ban Glean is a city to the southwest of the capital. It was once the home of the Dun Ban- ner, a light cavalry unit, dash- ing in their cloaks and beaver fur hats. The unit was famous for their brave action at the Battle of Brenna. Unfortunate- ly, while leading the Kaedweni army into battle once again, the unit was shattered by the sorceress Sabrina Glevissig, for- mer adviser to King Henselt.
>–Brandon of Oxenfurt

Ard Carraigh is the capital of Kaedwen, a hardy fortress city with few of the com- forts and amenities you might find in other capitals. It sits near the center of the country, not associated with any lake or river. The legendary founder of Henselt’s line, Viduka, was led to this unusual site by a unicorn, which now features on the flag of Kaedwen. In town, locals are likely to harass visitors who appear too “foreign” or ostentatious. It is a rough town for non-humans, though dwarves are grudgingly accepted. Henselt’s palace is on a bluff just north of the main city and access for anyone other than nobles and military elite is limited.