Redania remains untouched by Nilfgaardian forces. Our young king, Radovid the Stern, works tirelessly to unify the Northern forces to push back the Nilfgaardian threat. The current northern boundary of Redania touches nations of the Hengfors League, while the great Pontar River is the southern border and is the highway for Redania’s trade empire. In the west it is bounded by the Gulf of Praxeda and the Northern Sea. The wooded hills then roll east up to the Kestrel Mountains, which have traditionally been the boundary between Redania and Kaedwen. Recently, in response to a call from Kaedwen, King Radovid has sent Redanian troops across the Kestrel Mountains, not to aid Kaedwen but to occupy, as a part his plan to consolidate the

Northern Kingdoms. This sparked the Winter War, as Kaedwen attempted to rally its forces to push back Redania.

King Radovid’s father was King Vizimir the Just. Redania thrived in his reign, but darkness was on the horizon. In 1262 Nilfgaard started its depredations in the Northern lands, including the destruction of Cintra. King Vizimir saw Redania through the First Nilfgaardian War, but even during the peace Nilfgaardian spies and provocateurs sought to destabilize the country, sending proselytizing priests of the Great Sun and merchants with products priced to undercut domestic goods. The non-human races were egged on by Nilfgaardian spies. This came to a head when an elven attacker assassinated King Vizimir, although there are those that believe that the assassin was hired by Vizimir’s sorceress ad- viser, Philippa Eilhart. At that time Radovid was only thirteen years old and Redania was in the midst of the Second Nilfgaardian War. Queen Hedwig reigned in Redania, but power rested with a regency council led by the head of Redanian Intelligence, Sigismund Dijkstra, and his lover, the sorceress Philippa. The sorceress unwisely treated Queen Hedwig and the young Prince Radovid very badly. They say it was her arrogance that burned a vast hatred of sorceresses into our king at a young age. When he took the throne he realized the Lodge of Sorceresses had too much influence on the Northern kings. Radovid’s witch hunters, previously the most fanatical of the Knights of the Flaming Rose, have since hunted down many mages.

Tretogor is the capital of Redania. Aside from its castle and large administration buildings it is very modest. The city guard is very active—magic users and many non-hu- mans are soon swept up and not be seen again. Tretogor’s dungeons are famous for being the last stop for Scoia’tael on their way to execution. Almost everyone in Tretogor works for or is in town to visit the government. With Novigrad so close, there is no major trade center here.

Oxenfurt is the liveliest city in Redania. The Oxenfurt Academy and its libraries, labs, and classrooms fill the city center. Around the edges are the taverns, bars, and broth- els catering to the footloose but usually penniless students. There is nothing like it in the North, and new ideas and inventions boil out of it constantly.

>[!note]
># The Free City of Novigrad 
>Novigrad is the largest city in Redania. As a result of its status and its placement at the mouth of the Pontar it is the ultimate trade center. For many years Novigrad was a free city: the diversity of the beings there was only exceeded by the diversity of trade items. Since its recent occupation by Redania, the witch hunters and Redanian army have started to eliminate magic users in the city. You can still find anything you want in Novigrad. Go down to the docks to marvel at the trade ships of all nations unloading goods and look for rare ships from faraway and exotic Ze- rrikania and Ofier. Many of the largest human trade fam- ilies have their headquarters in Novigrad. There is also the Grand Temple of the Eternal Fire, the largest temple in the North.
>–Brandon of Oxenfurt